# MusicTaste
This repo contains the frontend to MusicTaste, a web application for users to create, share, and review other user’s MusicTaste/playlist. The backend of the website utilizes Ruby on Rails as API to manage the database and models, which can be viewed here: https://github.com/TriggaT/MusicTaste-API

I used yarn create react-app musictaste to create the frontend for the website, which came with the basics for a react app. MusicTaste is a React single page web application, that utilizes CSS and JavaScript Syntax(JSX) to manage and display the data received from the backend of the website. I (yarn) installed “react-router-dom” to give MusicTaste routes. I imported BrowserRouter to enable the ability and made use of the imported “Switch” and “Route” inside of App.js to give it specific routes, same for the playlist container and restful routes to create a new playlist. I used a similar process within the playlist component to create nested routes adding match.url, a prop that comes from react router, to process for creating songs and reviews on a playlist. I used history, another prop from react-router, to send users back to playlist after creating playlists, reviews, or adding new songs. I have static pages and stateless components for the home, about, and contact pages. I also created an error page path to show up when users try to visit a route that does not exist. 

I also have routes to log in and sign up for full access to the app that lead to component forms that allow users to do each. I made use of controlled forms to get/set the username and password in the state, which will be needed to connect to the backend of the website. My components are class components and they have a handleChange function to set the state of the form in addition to a handleSubmit function to set the current user in the app’s state and connect to the backend for authentication or creating a new user. All of the forms for playlists, reviews, and songs make use of a similar process. 

MusicTaste also utilizes Redux to share state between different components without necessarily having to pass down props each time. The handleSubmit function is connected to a reducer for users, which uses the action logInUser, to log-in users. I had to import combineReducers from redux and use it inside of createStore (imported from redux) to connect all the different reducers, in a rootReducer, with the different actions. Please review the file in reducer to get an understanding of all the reducers and their impact on state. With that understanding review all the actions in actions/index.js to see how the reducer is connected to the actions and how they are connected to the backend and reducers. 

I also imported applyMiddleware from redux and installed/imported thunk from redux-thunk, a middleware to dispatch actions, because redux needs a middle to handle async functions, such as fetch. I used the fetch to connect the frontend of the app to the backend of the app. 

I installed and imported Material UI into my app to create and use a modern design and UI throughout the website. I put my models and their related information inside Material UI’s imported Box components to display the information more clearly over the background. I also used Material UI’s imported AppBar component for my navbar and its imported TextField and Button components to make the forms fit the overall design. 